# Human 3D Genome Diversity

## Making your own 3D genome predictions
For those who want to make their own 3D genome predictions, we highly recommend checking out the fantastic work by Katie Gjoni in the Pollard lab. She has created a fantastic tool called SuPreMo (https://github.com/ketringjoni/SuPreMo) which allows for scalable in silico mutagenesis on the human reference, followed by predictions made with Akita. Katie's work is a valuable resource for the whole field and should make any future work much more approachable to new folks!

Her paper is linked here: https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article/40/6/btae340/7682378



## Code from the paper
This repository houses data and scripts used in the Human 3D Genome Diversity project.
See also https://github.com/brandcm/Pan_3d_Genome/tree/main and https://github.com/emcarthur/neanderthal-3D-genome for related manuscripts and analyses. 



- The data directory contains many of the data used in the analysis. Due to space constraints, some of the larger files (e.g., FASTAs and VCFs), are not included here but the means to retrieve or generate such files is described in the directory README.md.
- basenji: copy of https://github.com/calico/basenji/tree/master to be used in generating Akita predictions. 
- makeFASTA: contains scripts that generate pseudo-haploid sequences per individual from filtered genotypes.
- runningAkita: contains scripts to generate 3d maps from FASTAs using Akita
- comparingAkitaPreds: contains scripts to compare 3d maps generated by Akita
- activeNotebooks: jupyter notebooks used for analysis and visualization throughout the project.
- expectedDivergence: Scripts to generate shuffled sequences and expected 3D divergence using sequence variation from one individuals at a time.
- sequenceComps: scripts for calculating pairwise SNP divergence on various window scales for specified pairs of individuals.
- window_scale: scripts for subsetting 3d map predictions to smaller window sizes
- scripts: other utility scripts
- 3_in_silico_mutagenesis: scripts for in silico mutagenesis and subsequent 3d map prediction

Do not hesitate to reach out with questions or comments on any aspect of this work: erin.gilbertson@yale.edu, tony@capralab.org.
